TYPES OF INFOGRAPHICAL-LIKE GRAPHICS

  INFOGRAPHICS:
    - Uses images to tell the story, if the story relies on text to make sense (if you take the text out, it doesn't speak to you), you're using too much text, even if you have fancy interative graphics.

  MOTION GRAPHICS:
    - Can be simple (sliding off screen), or
    - can be complex (changing the graphic on screen, usually with AI and Aftereffects)
    - Can be better at conveying message than an infographic, especially for products and services (explainer videos can increase conversion by 87%)
      - If static, use images to tell story (posterboard). If a video (website), use narrator. Consider environment when creating.
      - Animated storyboards work well with 
      - Each scene is built off of the other (house of cards -- fragile)
      - GET SCRIPT, STORYBOARD, TIMING, AND ARTWORK APPROVED before you start implementing the project

  INTERACTIVE INFOGRAPHIC:
    - Can use HTML5 front with Excel back
    - d3js.org
    - focuses on delivering ONE message (vs multiple messages on website) and lets user dive as deep into that story as possible, while following all the rules of standard infographic design. Therefore, all data should be visualized; don't rely on text.
    - Parallel scroll is very popular right now

  OTHER TYPES:
    - Visual flowcharts (tends to use text, but can also be pretty)
    - Web diagram: visualize the entire world of a topic (tends to use text)

TIPS:
- Use universal symbols and easily recognized visuals that have meaning.
- Combine universal symbols with great content, clean design, and a structural heirachry.

RULES OF INFOGRAPHIC DESIGN
1) Always think about CON-text: It's a con when there's too much text. Use small, consistent text across infographic to highlight pictures you want attention drawn to. For large numbers (ex 300,000), use typography to draw attention to the number.
2) Focus on one message:
  a. Prioritize your goals (2 at most from the following 3 in pyramid), under the overarching goal of getting across your message as quickly as possible:
    1. Sales/traffic
    2. Social Shares
    3. Branding/Thought Leadership
3) People care less than goldfish -- You only have 5 seconds to get your message across: Use a visual hook that grabs attention and encourages viewer to dive deeper.
  A) For long scroll format, make sure the top has a compelling stat, illustration, or data visualization in the top 700px (keeps it above the top 1/3 of any screen). 
  B) If horizontal you have the entire screen to thrown in a hook, so consider putting your hook in the center of the design and let the supporting stats surround it.
  C) Also your infographic should visualize the topic matter so that it is easy to recognize within 5 seconds.
4) Good content is 50% of a successful infographic: Great visuals get viewers and good content keeps their attention. Design is the other 50%
5) Use correct data visualizations throughout:
  A) Similar data points should share a similar scale to prevent confusion and allow easy comparison.
  B) When data is delivered in form of a %, almost always use a pie chart. If it shows growth or decline, not self-standing percentages, one should use side-by-side bar charts with a note explaining the dotted lines which represent the difference on the shorter bar. (89% increase should actually show 189%)
  C) Visualize every chance you can, as 90% of info transmitted to the brain is visual.
  D) Small numbers can use quantograms, but larger number will likely rely on typography.
  E) Style pie charts and bar charts the same throughout the work.

RESERACHING YOUR INFOGRAPHIC
1) It's a script. An exact copy of the script should be used in the infographic (think outline with stats), but espcially it should be given in a way that makes sense to the designer.
  A) Properly sourced
  B) Unique
  C) Structure:
    1. Short title followed by short intro paragraph (<= 3 sentences). Should describe the topic of hte infographic. Oftentimes, this is a good place to introduce the problem statement.
    2. Break sections up by bold headlines, which are used by the designer to break up the design.
    3. Include information useful to designer but unnecessary to script in a comment directed to them (usually Designer: Here it is -- in bold red, so they know not to include it into the infographic itself)
    4. Bullet-point information to make sure it's easy to review and numbers stand out.
    5. Include links to sources of each stat, so the designer and client can easily reference them.
      a. Put links in the footer of the design when complete.
2) Always use reputable sources.
  A) Identify what questions you're trying to answer, then search for and document the answers you use in the infographic.
    1. End searches with "stats", "data", or "facts".
    2. Filter results with Google search tools ('most recent', for example, to ensure up-to-date data).
    3. Ignore results from crowd-sourced sites, such as wikipedia or blogs with a single writer.
    4. Always use original sources (.gov, .edu, or well-known .org)